[FR] Add experimental ML DGA CLI support (#361)
elastic/detection-rules: docs/ML_DGA.md

> # Machine Learning on Domain Generation Algorithm (DGA)

Reviewer: should we link to this document from anywhere else?

Author: yes, I will add a link to it in every related release as a reference

Reviewer: oh i mean from other markdown files, like README.md

Several blogs were put out on how you can create and leverage supervised DGA ML models to enrich data within the stack.
* Part 1: [Machine learning in cybersecurity: Training supervised models to detect DGA activity](https://www.elastic.co/blog/machine-learning-in-cybersecurity-training-supervised-models-to-detect-dga-activity)
* Part 2: [Machine learning in cybersecurity: Detecting DGA activity in network data](https://www.elastic.co/blog/machine-learning-in-cybersecurity-detecting-dga-activity-in-network-data)

You can also find some supplementary and examples [here](https://github.com/elastic/examples/tree/master/Machine%20Learning/DGA%20Detection)

For questions, please reach out to the ML team in the #machine-learning channel of the 
[Elastic public slack channel](https://www.elastic.co/blog/join-our-elastic-stack-workspace-on-slack)

They can also be reached by using the `stack-machine-learning` tag in the [discuss forums](https://discuss.elastic.co/tags/c/elastic-stack/stack-machine-learning)

> *Note: in order to use these ML features, you must have a platinum or higher [subscription](https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions)*

Reviewer 2: Hey @brokensound77 !  Really sorry for the late comment, but could we add a note here indicating that the . Stack ML components that this runs on are experimental?

Author: good call, added in fffac11d7991f486bcda52bd8ceca248394e4ae8

referenced jobs first.

## For Maintainers

### Validating release bundles and releasing

Release assets are expected to be in certain formats with specific naming patterns and json structures.

#### Filename patterns

DGA model file naming convention should match the following patterns

```json
{
  "model":                                "dga_*_model.json",
  "dga_ngrams_create":                    "dga_*_ngrams_create.json",
  "dga_ngrams_transform_delete":          "dga_*_ngrams_transform_delete.json",
  "dns_enrich_pipeline":                  "dga_*_ingest_pipeline1.json",
  "dns_dga_inference_enrich_pipeline":    "dga_*_ingest_pipeline2.json"
}
```

Experimental detections do not have to match a specific naming pattern but should be in the following file formats:
* rules: toml
* jobs: json

#### Uniqueness

The model file name and hash should be unique or else it will raise a warning in validation. This is important to allow 
distinction and ascertain information about a bundle by consulting the manifest, based on a unique name

Release zipped assets, name, and tag name all share the same name. These should follow the following format:

> * Model releases: `ML-DGA-20\d\d[0-1]\d[0-3]\d-\d`
> * Detection releases: `ML-experimental-detections-20\d\d[0-1]\d[0-3]\d-\d`

Reviewer: more obvious here:
```suggestion
* Model releases: `ML-DGA-YYYY-MM-DD`
* Detection releases: `ML-experimental-detections-YYYY-MM-DD`
```

Author: 2 use cases that come to mind _for_ numbering:
* multiple releases in a day
* quickly ascertaining count / quick reference (_"Hey Ross, go checkout DGA release 51"_)

> The trailing digit should be incremented for each release 

Reviewer: is it strictly necessary then? or should we just use it for tiebreakers if the date is the same?

Author: I kind of like the incremental numbering. Got the idea from https://github.com/elastic/protections-cloud/releases. Also https://github.com/elastic/detection-rules/pull/361#discussion_r522413981

Rule and Job names should also be unique

#### Rule and job structure

Rules files are only check if they are valid toml, nothing more. Consult existing production rules and schemas for API 
expectations

Job files are checked if they are valid toml and contain the following top level fields:
* name - job name
* type - job type

> * body - the meat of the job. The contents are not validated

Reviewer: probably should use a different word/phrase here. this is my guess:
```suggestion
* body - the encoded ML model of the job. The contents are not validated
```

Author: ```suggestion
* body - the actual ML job data. The contents are not validated
```

#### Validation

All of these checks are automated and can be called with:
`python -m detection-rules dev gh-release validate-ml-dga-asset` - for model bundles
`python -m detection-rules dev gh-release validate-ml-detections-asset` for rule/job bundles

Pay attention to the output to determine any necessary changes. This may not be all inclusive and actual testing on a 
live stack should always occur even with passing validation before saving to a GitHub release

#### Releasing

Install dependencies with `pip install -r requirements-dev.txt`

A release can be created via the cli using `python -m detection-rules dev gh-release create-ml`

* you can only use a github token
* the base directory name and release name must match
* you must have write permissions to the repo to create a release
* validation also occurs on this, with a prompt to proceed

> * upon completion, a manifest is saved in [etc/release_manifests](/etc/release_manifests)

Reviewer: update this line too

# Machine Learning on Domain Generation Algorithm (DGA)

Several blogs were put out on how you can create and leverage supervised DGA ML models to enrich data within the stack.
* Part 1: [Machine learning in cybersecurity: Training supervised models to detect DGA activity](https://www.elastic.co/blog/machine-learning-in-cybersecurity-training-supervised-models-to-detect-dga-activity)
* Part 2: [Machine learning in cybersecurity: Detecting DGA activity in network data](https://www.elastic.co/blog/machine-learning-in-cybersecurity-detecting-dga-activity-in-network-data)

You can also find some supplementary and examples [here](https://github.com/elastic/examples/tree/master/Machine%20Learning/DGA%20Detection)

> For questions please reach out to the ML team in the #machine-learning channel of the 

Reviewer 2: I would also add the Stack ML tag in the discuss forums as a potential way to reach us
https://discuss.elastic.co/tags/c/elastic-stack/81/stack-machine-learning

Author: Good call, thanks!
